Let's look at testing an API in real time.
So we're going to test a publicly available API.
In order to do that,
I use a tool called Postman.
You can go to www.getPostman.com,
click on get started,
and then download and install the version for your operating system.
I've already downloaded and installed Postman.
I have the URL to the publicly available API and it's a joke API,
so it returns random jokes related to computer programming.
So I'm going to paste that URL here and I'm going to issue
a get request and all I need to do to test this API is to click the send button here.
Notice the response is a joke and it comes back in JSON.
So in this case, this API uses JSON and not XML.
So JSON is simply a key value pair.
Here, it returns the id,
it returns the type of joke,
it returns the setup,
and it returns the punchline.
If you click send again,
it invokes that API and it returns another random joke.
Again, we see an id,
the type, and the setup, and the punchline.
So this one says,
why did the scarecrow win an award?
The punchline is because he was outstanding in his field, very funny.
So Postman is a useful tool for testing APIs and we will use it throughout this course.
There you have it. You've seen how to test an API using Postman.